As you just learned, Python includes the path lib module to manipulate file system paths on any operating
system.
One of the most important classes in path lib and one that we just learned about is Path.
When we create an instance of the PATH class in our code, we do so to represent a path to a file or
directory in our computer's file system path can be useful if you want to create or move files on the
file system list.
Files that match a particular extension or pattern or create appropriate file paths for the operating
system based on collections of strings.
For instance, what is this path can transform any sequence of strings into a path format.
For example, if path received the strings Europe, France, Paris and finally a file name like Eiffel
Tower text.
It will create a path with all those strings as folder hierarchies.
While it is possible to use other tools to perform, many other tasks such as the OS module path allows
you to perform these operations with a high degree of readability and a minimal amount of code path
is worth digging into.
So let's go to the code to learn more about this great tool.
In order to use path, we're going to import it from path lib import path.
And remember, path is typed in uppercase and let's remember something we dealt with in the last lecture.
Only this time we'll do it in a simpler way so you can understand easily how to set a path using path.
So let's create a variable named guide and store a path object which will have two words instead of
typing paths or just type two words.
I'll type Paris here, then Eiffel Tower, and then I'll print the guide to see how this path object
looks like.
This has nothing to do with any path yet.
Let's run and run and let's choose our file.
And here we got Paris backslash.
Eiffel Tower.
This is not a path, but it is.
What path does?
It creates objects that have the same format as paths.
If you have folders or files named like this, they can work with that format.
So in my case, I work with a Windows operating system and that's why I got a backward slash here.
If I worked with Linux or Mac, I'd have a forward slash.
So if I Eiffel Tower was a text file, I'd have an Eiffel Tower dot text file.
What's interesting is that the path object assigned to the guide variable contains a relative path.
This means that path slash Eiffel Tower dot text can be located in several folders in our system.
For instance, it can be located in slash users.
Slash users, one slash Paris slash Eiffel Tower dot text or in users slash users to slash places,
slash Paris slash Eiffel Tower and so on.
In this path.
However, we haven't exactly specified which of these two possibilities we're referring to.
On the other hand, if this was an absolute path, it would be referring to a specific location in our
system.
You can actually use a method named Home Inside Path to obtain the absolute path of the user's main
directory.
If before this guide, I had a variable named base that has a path dot home, which is the method I'm
talking about.
And then before guid I print base variable and I execute it.
We'll see the two prints I've created.
First we have base which has created the home.
In my case it is a C colon slash users slash wind ten.
And of course, this will be different on your computer.
Then we have guide, which is Paris slash Eiffel Tower dot text.
So what path dot home returns is a path instance with an absolute path to the user's main directory.
Then if I pass base before Paris and Eiffel Tower and I print it when passing this path instance which
is base to the strings Paris and Eiffel Tower.
Instead, this second path constructor and absolute path to the Eiffel Tower text file will be created.
As a result, we can tell that the first line is the main directory and the second is the main directory
plus Paris and Eiffel Doubt Tower.
Text.
This illustrates a defining characteristic of the Path class.
The PATH constructor recognizes strings as well as pre-existing objects of path.
Let's take a closer look at how the PATH constructor does it.
We'll do that by modifying something here.
We'll leave Path home in base, and we'll also leave Path in guide where we'll type Europe and then
France, like in descending order.
In this way, we get to Paris and Eiffel Tower, but I'll put those two inside another path that comprises
them both like this.
So notice that we have something a bit strange here.
We have three types of elements.
We have base, which is a path that was created in an external variable.
Europe and France are two strings and then another path, but this time it is an internal one which
we have created inside this path which contains Paris and the Eiffel Tower.
So let's delete to this base so we don't get confused when we get to the result.
We'll just print the guide and we'll see users win ten, which is the base.
Europe and France, which are two independent strings.
Paris Eiffel Tower text which we've created inside the path of guide.
All this concatenate itself properly creating a completely valid path object.
The fact is that the PATH constructor manages both types of objects and joins them using a separator
according to the operating system you work with, in my case, a backslash.
So now that we've learned how to create path instances in a more detailed way and use them to access
information about a file such as its name with name or its extension with suffix, we will be able to
see that path.
Instances can easily create a path object for a different folder by copying an object we already have.
So if I have this guide already created, I can create a guide to a completely new variable in which
I'll call guide dot which name which is a path method?
Don't forget guide is a path and here we'll name another file Notre-Dame dot text.
So if we now print guide and guide two will get two paths.
Both have the same folder structure.
But when we get to the Paris folder, we'll see the one path goes to Eiffel Tower and the other one
goes to Notre-Dame.
So we created a second valid path by copying the first one and changing the destination file.
Sometimes it can be useful to access these directories in the middle since they contain a specific path.
So we'll illustrate it.
Our delete guide too so we don't get confused.
And in guide I'll access parent which is a path object property.
What does parent return?
It returns Paris.
The parent attribute is a path instance that returns the immediate predecessor in a determined file
path.
In this case, it returns the directory containing Eiffel Tower text, which is Paris.
So we can use the parent attribute as many times as necessary to look at a specific file ancestry tree.
If I use another parent here, I can use this many times as the path lets me and I execute it.
Now I'm in France, which is the parent of the parent of guide, because guide goes to Eiffel Tower
and its parent is Paris and the parent of Paris is France.
If I use another parent, you'd easily guess that I'd return to Europe, and that's how you can select
different parts of your path.
The result is always similar to the previous one, so every time you use parent, you'll go one folder
higher in your path.
So it's also possible to use the PATH class to enumerate files inside a folder tree.
Imagine you have a directory structure that's a similar to the one you're looking at in this example.
I've actually created those directories to do this exercise.
If you want, you can do the same, but remember to put them inside the home of your path.
This is a directory basically named Europe, which contains two text files, advices and terms and two
folders named France and Spain.
So in France we have Paris and Marseille.
In Paris we have two text files and in Marseilles we have another one.
In Spain we also have the folder Barcelona, which contains one text file.
So before going on, let's delete some things and clean this up a bit to enumerate all the text files
in the year of directory, we can type the following.
Let's make it so that GUID is equal to path home.
And then we join it with Europe, which is the name of our main folder.
Then we'll iterate over our path because it is an iterable.
So let's create a for loop for each text inside path guide, which is our object, and let's access
our glob method which would be like global.
If we add quotation marks to make the string and then asterisks text.
Now remember the asterisks means all and we'll make our loop print each text on each iteration.
So since we're in Europe, which contains two text files.
When we print it, it'll return the paths to advices and terms.
Now keep in mind, since this code executes glob in the Europe directory, it returns the two text files
contained in that directory.
We can also use the Globe method to enumerate all the text files inside the Europe directory, including
subdirectories.
Now to do that, we just type the following double asterisk slash asterisk.
This will make the loop, include all the folders and subfolders it finds until it gets to all the text
files inside Europe.
So look how nice we have advices in terms Fontaine for Saathi, which was inside Marseilles, Eiffel
Tower and Notre-Dame which were inside Paris and Sagrada Familia which was inside Barcelona.
I feel like travelling.
So moreover, we can calculate paths that are related.
There's the relative to method which you can use to recover a part of a long file path.
So let's see an example.
We'll create a guide that's equal to a path that goes from Europe through France, Paris, which we've
already seen to the Eiffel Tower.
Text This is the string concatenation we have at the beginning.
So now I want to make different paths that go downwards from one of these items.
Suppose I want to see what's inside Europe.
So we'll create a variable named in Europe and it'll start the path guide using the relative to method
inside relative to will type a path that starts from Europe because that's what we want to see.
And we'll type another one as a second example, we'll try.
In France, this will contain another path object of guide that's relative to a path that starts from
Europe and France.
So last but not least will print this to see it on the screen.
First, we'll print in Europe and then in France.
And let's see here we have two paths.
Who starting points are the ones we chose.
So they go downwards from France and Paris.
This is how we can make paths that let us see.
The contents of determined folders take into account that the relative to method returns a new path
object, which is the one we have here.
And it's linked to a specific argument.
To conclude, the PATH Object is a key feature of the Python standard library, and it allows us to
easily manipulate file paths in an operating system.
In this lecture, you have learned how to use some necessary path tools to access file attributes,
enumerate files with key patterns, and move through files and main directories.
Path Lib which we saw in the last lecture as well as the path object, which we just saw, include more
classes and tools that we can't cover in these videos.
So as usual, I advise you to look into them on your own.
So now that you are given a point of reference, you can use the documents about path lib to gather
more information and acquire more knowledge.
So thanks for being here again and see you in the next lecture.